President Trump said on social media on Monday that Israel and Iran had agreed to a cease-fire after more than a week of missile strikes on each other and a weekend attack on Iranian nuclear facilities by American bombers.

Iran’s foreign minister, Abbas Araghchi, appeared to contradict the president hours later, saying there was no agreement “as of now.” But he also suggested that Iran would be willing to lay down arms if Israel stopped “its illegal aggression against the Iranian people” by 4 a.m. in Tehran.

An Israeli military spokesman declined to comment, and as that deadline approached, Israel was continuing to strike Iran with missiles in one of the most intense barrages of the war.

Mr. Trump’s assertion came hours after Iran launched missiles at Al Udeid Air Base in Qatar, the largest American military installation in the Middle East, retaliating for U.S. strikes on Iranian nuclear sites — though giving forewarning to limit the damage. About 10,000 U.S. troops are stationed at Al Udeid, which serves as the regional headquarters for the U.S. Central Command.

Vice President JD Vance said soon after Mr. Trump’s post that the war appeared to be “effectively over” and that there was now an opportunity to “restart a real peace process.”

Mr. Trump’s language was characteristically less cautious.

“It has been fully agreed by and between Israel and Iran that there will be a Complete and Total CEASEFIRE,” the president wrote on social media. But he said it would not take place until the two countries had “wound down” military missions still in progress, which he said would unfold in phases over a day.

Three diplomats, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss sensitive diplomacy, said that top Qatari officials had intervened on behalf of the Trump administration and persuaded Iran to agree to an American cease-fire proposal after being told Israel had also signed on.

Israeli officials had already suggested that the fighting might wind down soon. On Sunday night, the Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, said Israel was “very, very close” to achieving its aims in the war against Iran, although he did not provide a timetable for an end to the fighting.

The Iranian strike on Al Udeid had initially stoked fears that the conflict with Iran might intensify, drawing the United States in deeper and expanding across the region. Qatar condemned the attack on its territory and said it reserved “the right to respond directly.”

Here’s what else to know:

Economic impact: Oil prices fell and stocks climbed after Iran fired missiles at Al Udeid. Before the attack, investors appeared cautiously optimistic about the potential economic fallout from the U.S. strikes over the weekend, and of any moves Iran might make that would disrupt oil shipments through the Strait of Hormuz, a critical transit point for global oil supplies.

Calls for peace: After European foreign ministers met to discuss Iran, the European Union’s chief diplomat, Kaja Kallas, said that “the concerns of retaliation and this war escalating are huge.” The International Atomic Energy Agency held an emergency meeting in Vienna, where the head of the agency, Rafael Grossi, warned that “violence and destruction could reach unimaginable levels” if Iran, Israel and the United States do not find a path to diplomacy.

U.S. strikes: Though Mr. Trump declared that Iran’s nuclear program had been “totally obliterated” by the U.S. bombings over the weekend, the actual state of the program was far murkier, with senior officials conceding they did not know the fate of Iran’s stockpile of near-bomb-grade uranium.